Our text this morning is so encouraging and so strengthening for us.
It reminds us of a special type of peace that we can experience that's not dependent on
our circumstances or on what's going on around us.
How would you define that peace of God that's referred to in our text?
What exactly is it?
Now Insight Volume 2, page 592, says this.
The peace of God, that is the calmness and tranquility that result from a Christian's
precious relationship with Jehovah God, guards his heart and mental powers from becoming
anxious about his needs.
He has the assurance that Jehovah God provides for his servants and answers their prayers.
This puts his heart and mind at rest.
So now what do you understand from that definition?
When if you look at Philippians chapter 4 and look at verses 6 and 7 together, we understand
from those verses that when we pour out our heart to Jehovah, when we supplicate him,
when we beg him for his help, and when we do so with a thankful spirit, always being
grateful for the good things that Jehovah gives us, being confident that he will bless us
and he will help us, we can receive from Jehovah that wonderful calmness and tranquility
that puts our minds and hearts to rest.
Now as Paul goes on to say there in verse 7, that peace of God surpasses all understanding.
Now let's look at some examples, first of all in the scriptures, where we see individuals
who experience that peace of God.
Now first of all, let's go to Daniel chapter 3, Daniel chapter 3, and let's go down
here at verse 16.
And of course, now this is the account of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.
And you'll remember the situation, Nebuchadnezzar had erected this image and required everyone
to bow down before it.
And when it became evident that the Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego would not do this,
they were brought before the king.
Here's what they said.
Look at verse 16, Oh Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer you in this matter.
If it must be, our God whom we serve is able to rescue us from the burning fiery furnace
okay, and to rescue us from your hand.
But even if he does not, let it be known to you, O king, that we will not serve your gods
or worship the image of gold that you have set up.
Well now the Bible doesn't record the prayer that Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego said.
But when you listen to their words, do you hear their calm?
Do you hear the tranquility in their voices?
There's no panic here.
There's no terror.
They speak confidently and calmly with full trust in Jehovah.
Well as you look on to verse 19, you'll see that Nebuchadnezzar becomes furious at this.
And he has the furnace heated seven times hotter than normal.
This 22 says that when the king's command was so harsh and the furnace was so hot that
the men who were to throw Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and they were all killed because
the furnace was so hot.
Brothers, this is real.
This is real persecution.
This is real fire.
But what happens?
Look at verse 24, Nebuchadnezzar looks in the fire.
He says, did we not tie up three men and throw them in the fire?
Yes.
He says, look, I see four men walking about free in the midst of the fire and they are unharmed.
And the fourth one looks like a son of the God, like a son of the gods.
When are you talking about peace of God?
Three men walking about in the fiery furnace.
I wonder what they were saying.
Well, what are you going to do today, Shadrach?
What are we going to do when we get out of this fiery furnace?
You see, not in terror, not in panic, but a picture of calmness.
That's the peace of God.
What about Jahashafat?
In 2 Chronicles 20, let's look at this one too.
2 Chronicles 20.
Now you'll see here, Jahashafat and the people of Jude are surrounded by enemy armies.
Verse 12, look at what he says in his prayer.
We are powerless before this large crowd that is coming against us.
We do not know what we should do, but our eyes are toward you.
Imagine the concern in his heart.
Look at verse 13.
You see, it says that all those of Jude were standing before Jehovah, including their
little ones, their wives, and their children.
So, you see, Jahashafat was perhaps a little bit in a state of anxiety here.
Say, in Jehovah, we just don't know what to do.
But just like Philippians 4, 6, and 7 says,
Jahashafat's supplicated Jehovah.
He begged him for his help.
He had a thankful heart, even recounting the ways that Jehovah had blessed the nation.
And what happened?
Well, the message came from Jehovah in verse 15.
Do not be afraid or be terrified because of this large crowd.
For the battle is not yours, but God's.
And verse 17,
Jehovah told him, you will not need to fight this battle.
Take your position, stand still, see the salvation of Jehovah in your behalf.
Do not be afraid or be terrified.
Well, there's immediately a different spirit in Jehovah's.
You can tell that he's experienced the peace of God because, look at verse 20, in 21.
He immediately says to the people,
listen to me, O Judah, and you inhabitants of Jerusalem,
put faith in Jehovah our God so that you may be able to stand firm,
put faith in his prophets, and you will be successful.
And then he appointed men to go out and singens,
and go before the armies of Israel, as they praised Jehovah.
Well, as a result, of course, the nation was saved.
Jehashafat experienced that calmness, that tranquility,
that comes from the peace that only God can give.
Well, the same is true in our modern times.
In the 1975, your books, a beautiful experience,
about our dear brother Daniel Sidler, who served on the governing body.
He was jailed because of his Christian neutrality in 1944.
On his first night in prison, he was lying on top of his bunk,
and he was listening, as the steel gates,
he says, like rumbling thunder rolled to a close.
One by one, the sound of those gates came closer and closer,
until his cell gate quivered, and then rolled slowly shut.
He said suddenly, an overwhelmingly sickening sensation swept
over me, which made me feel trapped, without a way out.
Then, just as quickly, followed another sensation, equally overwhelming,
which made me feel great peace and joy.
The kind of peace that the Bible speaks about,
the peace of God that surpasses all understanding.
Isn't that wonderful? How about this one?
This is a farewell letter that a young brother wrote to his parents
during the time of Nazi Germany.
This is what he wrote to them.
It is now nine o'clock on the day of my trial,
but I must wait till 1130.
I am writing these lines in a solitary cell of the state military court.
I have such peace, which is really hardly believable,
but I have also committed all to the Lord
so that I can calmly wait for that hour.
Then at 1230, he continued his letter.
It's all over now.
In view of the fact that I maintained my objection,
the death sentence was decreed.
I listened, and then after I had spoken the words,
be thou faithful unto death, and a few other words of our Lord,
it was all over. But never mind that now.
I have such peace, such tranquility,
that you can't possibly imagine.
Isn't that amazing?
The peace of God came upon that dear brother
before he was executed.
Well, now in Russia, what do we see?
Our brothers are facing armed and masked men,
breaking down their doors of their homes,
doing home searches, breaking up meetings, court cases, imprisonment.
But there are so many wonderful experiences of how Jehovah
has given the peace of God to our brothers.
During one search on a brother's home,
the brother began to worry and feel anxiety.
He prayed to Jehovah,
I don't know what to do, give me advice.
Just then the investigator doing the home search
began looking at the magnets on the brother's refrigerator,
and loudly and expressively read the inscription
on one of the fridge magnets,
do not be anxious for I am your God.
The brother right away understood what he needed to do.
Well, brothers, what's the point?
Regardless of what may be happening around us,
what persecution we may face,
how challenging the situation may be
if we supplicate Jehovah with a thankful heart,
he will give us a precious gift,
the peace of God that surpasses all understanding.